# AUTOMATED-HOME-FINANCING

# EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Everyday corporations, governments and individuals face different situations in which they need to find
an optimal solution or a suitable decision policy, which can help them steer their way out of a complex
situation. In order to find this optimal decision or policy, corporations and governments use different
analysis techniques, they assign probabilities to uncertain events, determine the associated cost of each
event and decision alternative and then they arrive at the most beneficial decision.                                                                                                
Decision analysis (DA) is a systematic, quantitative, and visual approach to addressing and evaluating the
important choices that businesses, governments or individuals sometimes face. DA finds its application in
R&D projects, Investment projects, business ventures, product launches and even in personal decisions.
Statistics and probability theory form the basis of Decision analysis, the techniques used in decision
analysis help the analyst to model an opaque situation into transparent models, where all underlying costs
and uncertainties are defined in a transparent manner and a series of steps are taken to solve the
problem.                                                                                                                                                                            
This project is focused on finding an elaborate decision policy for the Customer Service Representative
(CSR) department of a Home Financing company, which can be adopted by the CSR in the CSR-customer
interactions and will result in maximum profit for the company. The company under study in this project
is Dream Home Financing, it offers loan packages to customers who are looking for loans in order to buy,
build or repair their homes. The analyst will use old data from company’s database and determine
whether the CSR-customer interaction will be successful or not, and then they will define a policy based
on the values and probabilities of uncertain variables which are associated with the calculation of revenue
generated by the company over the loan term and it’s Net Present Value (NPV). The values of these
uncertain variables may change from customer to customer but in order to define a decision policy, they
are modelled into probability distribution using historical data from previous CSR-customer interactions. 

# INTRODUCTION

Dream Home Financing is a home financing company, its leadership has 28 years of experience in lending
and real estate since 1992. The company provides consumers with an education in various mortgage
programs and lending alternatives. They also have an extensive network of lenders which offer a wide
variety of loan packages.                                                                                                                                                          
Among all industries, insurance domain has the largest use of analytics & decision analysis methods. This
decision analysis project is aimed towards helping the company define a decision policy, by identifying
suitable customer segments and offering them loan package which is most profitable to the company by
calculating the net present value of the interest included in the loan payments. The suitable customer
segments are defined by using the data from previous deals between different customers and Dream
Home Financing. 
